OSOE-1109: Add base functionality (#2)
Lombiq/eInvoice-Validator: Readme.md

# Lombiq eInvoice Validator

[![Lombiq EInvoiceValidator NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator?label=Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator/)

## About

.NET library to validate EU eInvoices that follow the EN 16931 standard.

Uses [CEN/TC 434 - EN-16931 - Validation artifacts](https://github.com/ConnectingEurope/eInvoicing-EN16931) v1.3.14.1 release validation files for schema (xsd) and schematron (xslt) validation. Currently, ubl - UBL 2.1 (ISO/IEC 19845:2015) and cii - Cross Industry Invoice (D16B) eInvoicing formats are supported.

Do you want to quickly try out this project and see it in action? Check it out in our [Open-Source Orchard Core Extensions](https://github.com/Lombiq/Open-Source-Orchard-Core-Extensions) full Orchard Core solution and also see our other useful Orchard Core-related open-source projects!

We have a benchmark project to measure the performance of the validation process. You can find it here: [Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Benchmark](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Benchmark/Readme.md).

## Prerequisites

> - Node.js

Reviewer: Elaborate which version, whether there are any special setup instructions, and if it's needed both during development and in production. Also add why you need it, what does the library use behind the scenes.

## Getting Started

> Check out our sample project to see it in action: [`Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Sample`](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Sample/Program.cs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These samples don't contain the common setup necessary before you can use the validation methods. For those, and to see them in action, check out our sample project: [`Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Sample`](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Sample/Program.cs).
```

    }
    else
    {
        // Access validationResult.SchemaValidationResult and validationResult.SchematronValidationResult for details.
    }
    ```

## Validation Helpers

### `SchemaValidationHelper`

Validate an XML invoice against the XSD schema only:

```csharp
// For string XML.
var schemaResult = await SchemaValidationHelper.ValidateXmlAgainstSchemaAsync(
    xmlString,
    InvoiceFormat.CII,
    eInvoiceXmlSchemaSet);

// Or using stream.
var schemaResult = await SchemaValidationHelper.ValidateXmlAgainstSchemaAsync(
    xmlStream,
    InvoiceFormat.CII,
    eInvoiceXmlSchemaSet);

if (schemaResult.ErrorMessages.Any())
{
    // Handle schema validation errors.
}
```

### `SchematronValidationHelper`

Validate business rules using schematron only:

```csharp
using Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Helpers;

var schematronResult = await SchematronValidationHelper.ExecuteSchematronValidationAsync(
    xmlString,
    InvoiceFormat.Ubl,
    nodeJsService,
    memoryCache);

if (schematronResult.ErrorFailedAsserts.Any())
{
    // Handle schematron errors.
}

if (schematronResult.WarningFailedAsserts.Any())
{
    // Handle schematron warnings.
}
```

### `InvoiceFormatHelper`

> The `InvoiceFormatHelper` class is used to detect the format of an e-invoice XML (either UBL or CII). It provides async methods to analyze either a string or a stream containing XML and returns the detected `InvoiceFormat` enum value.

Reviewer: The EU websites consistently use "eInvoice", so change all variations of "e-invoice" in the project to that too.

We have a benchmark project to measure the performance of the validation process. You can find it here: [`Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Benchmark`](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Benchmark/Readme.md).

## Projects

- The main library for validating eInvoices - [Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator/Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.csproj)
- A sample console application demonstrating how to use the library - [Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Sample](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Sample/Readme.md)
- A benchmark project to measure the performance of the validation process. - [Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Benchmark](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Benchmark/Readme.md)
- Unit tests for the library. - [Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Tests](./Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Tests/Lombiq.EInvoiceValidator.Tests.csproj)

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Elaborate whether there's any difference here between development and production.

Author: There is no difference.

Author: If you think about our very specific case where we need to do special Azure startup commands, I believe that's very specific to us. I think listing Node.js as a prerequisite is enough.
